The in-class binding activity was great at showing how easy it can be to produce a simple but effective binding with twine. The end result was sturdy and minimal, and I could envision this same technique being used to bind larger books than the ones we made. However, the twine was exposed, and I don't believe that this would have been the most effective technique for binding books that were handled regularly and keeping them intact. Most modern books have a book cover which protects the inner workings of the binding, and makes the object sturdier for handling and transportation. Learning about how book chapters used to be individually distributed unbound only to be bound later with the rest of the chapters was eye-opening since this type of subscription based model for singular books is not widely seen anymore. Having the entire book bound given it's complete solves the problems of having to keep chapters in order and not losing any pages.

Charles W. Chesnutt, who writes in _Baxter's Procustes_ in the club president's quote that "to the true collector, a book is a work of art, of which the contents are no more important than the words of an opera. Fine binding is a desideratum." He believes the binding defines the book and not its contents. Looking at books through the lens of art, I could understand looking at a wall of books and seeing the textures and fonts lining colorful and embellished spines and reveling in the collection. However, knowing that books were often rebound, especially old and important ones whose information was deemed important enough to require additional protect, the content of books cannot simply be deemed irrelevant. Looking at the two aspects separately, I would not consider the outer binding of a book to be a book, while I would consider the collection of text and paper within them to be a book. Binding is nonetheless a part of the design or a book. In _How to design an awarded letterpress printed book_, the author and Ruben Diaz put a lot of thought into how their binding would affect their final product. They wanted their binding to "give this sense of continuity and clarity to the story" they were telling. In this case, the binding they chose had a direct effect on the readability of the book, since it was of a non-standard form. Comparing this binding to those that Baxter's president cherishes, we see how this binding effects the content of the book, while those had no effect other than protecting the pages.

Nostalgia was an important theme in the readings. The love for books and the smell of books has existed since their inceptions, but it's in today's society that we see an increased longing for those kinds of sensory stimulation as information has shifted toward the digital. Beth Driscoll and Claire Squires attribute this longing to "a commitment to the objectness of the book and its status as quirky, personal and material rather than digital." The entire physical form of a book is responsible for producing this intimate relationship between book and reader, including the binding and any non-conventional materials used in its making. In Zachary Petit's interview of Lindsay Shmittle, she asks, "can the bark be more than just bark texture? _It could be a cliff edge or a haze of clouds in a landscape or something else._" Using unconventional materials in printing not only makes the work look unique, but it imbues the print with another aspect that a reader can latch onto and experience emotions in relation to. This can also apply to the author, like how in this case the print the bark makes will always remind her of the trees she saw when walking the trail. The ability to relate to these different aspects of a physical book, both for author and reader, yield a stronger connection between the two and contributes to that nostalgia factor.
