A large part of the appeal of zines is that is provides a more intimate or personal medium for artists to communicate with each other, and within their circles. Part of the reason behind this is due to zine distribution. Although there is nothing physically stopping a zine from being distributed widely, they are usually printed in small quantities, and distributed to a select group of people the artist knows. The intent of the zine is not to be a mainstream book, and it more closely resembles a comic book issue. As Jenna Wortham said in _Why the Internet Didn't Kill Zines_, "authors control every aspect, from the design to the distribution" of their zines. This means that artists are covering the costs of all the materials they are using to produce their zines. Given the fact that the artist(s) usually published their work for free or next to nothing, there's no financial gain for them which means they're creating their art purely to share it with a close group of people.

The biggest reason why zines are so personal is that since they are distributed to a small, select group, the reader is less removed from the author and is likelier to be invested in the material. This was shown when looking at Giordana Mecagni's zines, where she listed her address on the back of her zines for readers to contact her. This likely wouldn't have been done if her zine had national publication because giving a nation of people your home address even with the best of intentions isn’t wise. She provided her address so that her core group of readers could communicate with her directly, fostering a closer relationship between author and reader. Something else that's interesting to think about is how just a few years after those zines were published, a physical address would certainly be replaced by an email address as they became more popular, obfuscating a residential address and providing a more reliable, safer, and quicker method of communication between author and reader. Any level of communication between author and reader in regular print books is not generally seen in today's society. This level of trust and care within the zine communities over shared experience and artist's books are why they are referred to as a "living movement" in the _Zine Librarians Code of Ethics_. 

The content of a zine has a very close relationship to the author or authors. Some of the zines we've looked at are by an author from a marginalized community, thus their zines are political by nature and focus on their identity, or a specific topic for the issue. Their zines capture their viewpoint and their experiences without needing to be a formal piece of literature with mass distribution. This is another reason that zine distribution is limited; with a large distribution, personal art would likely get into the hands of someone who it was not intended for. That's a reason why zines have never really been replaced by the internet, because they are an "unexpected respite from the scrutiny on the internet, which can be as oppressive as it is liberating," as Jenna Wortham said about making them. While other book forms may have this purpose, zines generally do not. Zines are not inherently political; one such zine we looked at in class was professionally printed and consisted of the same images reprinted on nearly every page with different captions. Here we see the thoughts of the author that appear to almost be rambling, and serve no higher purpose other than entertainment. Still, this was a personal work for the author. The content was starkly different from all of the other zines, but still managed to convey a very specific viewpoint. We get a distinct sense of who the author is and what’s important to them through zines, not just the story they're telling. They capture not just that moment in history but also that moment in the authors life and what they need to say.