E-lit transformed where we were able to view text and books, and just how much we were able to consume. Most mobile devices have the capability to access the internet and pull up nearly every article or book the reader could want. For those of us who were exposed to this technology early enough, it seems second nature at this point. However, there is definitely a generational curve that declines, relating age to e-lit (and more broadly, technology) proficiency. As an anecdote, all the people over 65 I know, either through family or friends, struggle immensely with using most devices that could display e-lit. This can be thought of as a "generational transition" as referred to by Ferris Jabr. Learning technology and by extension e-lit earlier in your life teaches your brain to make the neurological paths that decode that information in the given format. Paul La Farge, talking about written pages, informs us that "the visual cortex forms networks of cells that are capable of recognizing letterforms almost instantaneously." This is through reading a physical text, but there's no reason why this wouldn't happen with the same letterforms presented digitally. Therefore, those that learn technology earlier may just be more familiar with the format, and there would be no cognitive difference in their comprehension of said information.

One of the largest differences between physical books and e-lit is the way we navigate reading it. Scrolling through a web page is not the most satisfying way to measure progress when reading e-lit. Most modern e-reader programs and devices have emulated the codex and page flipping mechanics digitally. However, reading long articles or essays online usually does not make use of this display technology, so simply looking at the screen is not a good indicator of your position in the article, while holding physical book you can easily gage how much you've read and how much is left. The codex format "features not only make text in a paper book easily navigable, they also make it easier to form a coherent mental map of the text," says Jabr. In contrast, he says digital devices "interfere with intuitive navigation of a text and inhibit people from mapping the journey in their minds." Most people alive today would agree with this, with the exception being the youngest generations whose brains may be experiencing the benefits of reading digital literature earlier relative to those who have strictly read physical books their entire life.

Even if you agree that standard codex books with their textures and nostalgia are perhaps the best method of engaging with and processing information, you cannot deny the immense capabilities that e-lit brings to the table. These things include easier transportation, innovative story formats like branching storylines, and the capability to integrate other kinds of media like sound and video with the book. The flexibility that e-lit gives in this sense, to not just store information but to store art and experiences makes it an extremely appealing platform for experimental literature. Touching on the transportation aspect, the fact that nearly every modern computer and mobile device can be an e-reader can make the distribution of e-literature as simple as visiting a website link. Looking at Jon Bois's "What Football Will Look Like in the Future," we see this is a prime example of e-lit that contains multiple different forms of media. Bois using them all together creates an entirely new kind of experience that wouldn't be possible in other more standard form books. He included videos showing the text being typed out; while not a very visually impactful addition, it is contextually valuable because that's the way the stories characters would have talked to each other, rather than their thoughts being typed out sequentially and displayed all at once. Finally, touching on branching storylines in e-lit like the examples we looked at, I realize that choose your own adventure stories have been published in codex form, so while that feature is not necessarily unique to e-lit, the abundance of other resources and features that e-lit has access to in its toolbox yield it far greater a capacity to create unique experiences outside of the content of the text it contains than codex books.