Letterpress printing was one of the most impactful innovations of the 15th century. It revolutionized printing, allowing for copies to be made from the same metal type cast, in what otherwise would have had to been copied manually. Not only that, but its aesthetic was widely appealing, and removed a lot of the variation in lettering between texts copied by hand. This is not to say it's without its challenges. A single error will be reproduced as many times as the cast is printed. Letterpress is so temperamental, and there are so many rules to follow to optimize for the most successful print, while technology has gotten to the point where all of the hardships of the letterpress can be bypassed digitally. Design applications make it so the texture of weighted paper can be applied to a digital canvas, and zooming in you can see the pulps of the "paper." Opacity can be scaled up or down, mimicking the translucency of letterpress inks and allowing the underlying colors or textures to be seen. 

It's amazing to me how new technology can obfuscate the history of the physical object it replaces. I'm talking specifically about the en space and its origin as a word separator used by the Irish to make reading the Latin bible easier. The neurological effects of this innovation alone were outstanding, allowing information to be processed faster and easier. Now, a single press of the space key on a computer yields the same effect. The use of the space between words has both monetary and aesthetic context to it as well. As _Lindsay Lynch_ noted in "How I Came to Love the En Space," white space was viewed as wasted profit during the 19th century; the goal was to maximize the print on the page thus maximizing the money that could be charged for advertisements, leading to a decline in legibility. Contrasting that, minimalist prints made abundant use of white space to draw focus to particular text or images. This served an artistic purpose but was not profitable, which most likely would align with the artist's goal of creating art and being unconcerned with monetizing every inch of the print. 

The most notable interesting thing that I see with letterpress printing is its place in time and its perception by society. Upon its inception, it was viewed as laborious, it was costly, and required teaching and experience to operate efficiently, while even fewer could use it to run a business. Then comes the print presses, effectively rendering letterpress printing moot. The aesthetic of the letterpress was not viewed as something being lost, and the benefits of the new technology were revered. This is interesting considering the most recent shift from paper to digital; I'm not positive there was any substantial period when digital print was lauded as the future and paper's rightful successor, other than the time period surrounding the release of the Kindle. Instead, it seems like people rather immediately lamented for their physical copies, shunning e-readers. But again, in the age of digital, letterpress printing is once again viewed as astute and beautiful, carrying vintage sentiments along with each press made. The technique and product have not changed, but time and society progress intertwined, and with them the shift of public perception. It's safe to assume these kinds of shifts will continue to happen as technology progresses, although I don't believe letterpress will lose its designation as vintage and aesthetically pleasing; extending from that, I would conclude that once something becomes vintage, unless it is mass produced to the point where it's no longer a commodity, the next phase in the lifecycle of an old technology would be to consider it ancient. However, time and society would need to progress much further before this could happen.
