Amaranth Borsuk's _The Book_ examines the idea of the book through four lens: object, content, idea, and interface. Breaking down and studying books through these four contexts allow Borsuk to follow the book's journey in our society from some of its earliest forms, clay tablets and papyrus, all the way until its most modern digital forms. Borsuk first looks at the book as the object it was in Sumer around 3000 BCE. Clay was abundant, and there was a need for documentation in their society, which prompted the introduction of cuneiform writing on clay tokens and later tablets that would become somewhat standard during this time period. This is one example of the overarching theme of form and content advancing together; as technology progresses and the need for information increases, the book adapts to both those needs. We see that once the distribution of these clay tokens starts increasing, shortly after the object becomes a rounded sphere, and is then pressed flat into a tablet shape to facilitate easier transportation, making them more accessible. Additionally, this facilitated the spread of language across regions. 

Like the book's form, language and content evolved together as well. The Romans wrote reversed-line script and discarded punctuation so that reading out loud and facilitating discussion could be performed quicker. When literature became more common for people not born into a higher class, the language once again needed to become more legible for a wider audience and punctuation was reintroduced and text became neater. This would have had a profound effect on working class people, who were now able to be read what always wasn't available to them. This helped educate and expand the vocabulary of people who read the new literature, and thus spread language through them. 

Another progression that is evident through Borsuk's examination of printmaking throughout history is the reduction of the individual labor it took to make books as a result of technology. The long, laborious process of transcribing long works was not popular. The introduction of the press was the turning point; although it was still laborious and came with its own set of challenges, it allowed replication of print at a scale not seen before. Technology continued improving and books were produced in larger numbers and distributed farther and quicker. Now the speed at which this happens is even more evident, since digital media is able to be shared globally in a matter of moments. I can't image where technology will take us next in terms of how books and text are created and distributed, as the current means are so accessible and easily distributable. If the goal is to read text immediately, eBooks and PDFs are the best medium I can think of. For any other codex or book, those people seeking them out are doing so for the features that technology can't replace. 