One of the most interesting thing our group talked about was the community aspect of 3D printing. There's a community of people adding to the collection of designs used for 3D printing. These special designs are created using modeling software, and are easily shareable and replicable once in this format. Websites like "Thingiverse" host user-submitted designs for people to print on their own, and that's just one of many that have popped up since the introduction of mainstream 3D printing technology. We talked about how this community is comparable to the community that surrounds zine books. With zines, there is the opportunity for readers to interact with the authors and give them their feedback, and let them know that they've enjoyed their work. There's also a hub where readers come to find new work. This hub also exists in 3d printing, with new designs being uploaded daily, with the most popular designs receiving the most likes and downloads. The important thing to note in both these examples is how the community comes together to drive growth/adoption and interest in the given media. It's this type of interaction that causes an art form to gain popularity as an artist medium and become more mainstream. 

Throughout the semester, we've looked at countless examples of things we may or may not define as a book, with the large majority fitting into our expansive and encompassing definition of a book. It's now as we discuss the most advanced modern technology and some of the ways it's been used that we begin to outright reject instances of 3D printing under our definitions. One such instance I have to reject is Allison Burtch and Eric Rosenthal's "Mic Jammer." Emitting an ultrasonic signal above human hearing range to disrupt a phone's microphone, it does not have the characteristics of a book; while sound waves within our hearing range can be attributed to nearly anything, including spoken text, music, or any system of writing that has been conveyed as sound, this is different. Its purpose is to obscure sound in a destructive way, so by using this tool information is lost. Also, it is not understandable by humans; while this is not a disqualifier for a book, any machine transposing this signal will not uncover any additional meaning. This is saying that even though we cannot understand this signal, there is nothing that needs to be understood, and there's nothing that can be translated. This is an instance of something that was "3D printed" but would not be considered a book. "MashBOT" by Helen J. Burgess however, does fit the definition of a book. Comparing it to a book of poetry, the similarities are evident: both are poetry printed on paper. Analyzing the differences between the two gives more insight into some of the foundational aspects of 3D printing and how it's separate from standard-print books. By the time you read a printed book of poetry, it will have been standardized, pressed and bound and distributed to you. In this 3D printed example, the bot is printing additional poetry as it's generated, printing to the same sheet of paper, growing continuously. A theme I've come across in 3D printing is continuity, and a 3D printer object's general ability to keep adding content. This is generally different from most other media, where the art is finished and then distributed.

One of the hottest topics of these readings was the Lincoln life mask. A 3D printed replication of a mask made of Lincoln's face, we saw how a lot of the characteristics of the face were lost in the 3D printed model. This ties back to a theme prevalent in this course, the significance of an original object and its place in time and history. The original object, be it made of stone, metal, paper, containing text, images, neither or both, contains a particular aura that is the sum of all of the context surrounding that object. This aura belongs to the object alone, which is why a 3D printed copy of something cannot be called an exact replica, no matter how accurate it is. It is created in the present by modern technologies, as opposed to the past techniques and technology used to make the original. One of the most impactful quotes from Susan Garfinkel in _The Case of the Lincoln Life Mask_ is, "when we grasp that final 3-D print in our hands, it is a palpable affirmation that all objects are dialogic reinstantiations." What I believe Garfinkel is saying is that there is no object that simply exists without the troves of objects and knowledge it was based on. Thinking of objects as ideas, all new ideas are based off of some formulation of ideas that came before it. An object would then be the physical representation of an idea, displayed through modern technology, which in the cases we're focusing on would be 3D printing. These ideas about replication and 3D printing can coexist, since Garfinkel is not claiming anything about reinstantiations' claim on the original object. She sees the dialogic object as "at once multiple and distinct," in the way that there can be multiple of the same appearing object, yet each one was printed separately from unique material. These objects represent the same idea, but are unique instantiations of that idea themselves.