Breaking down text into one of its simplest parts, the individual letter, does not make the topic of discussion any smaller. The first typography was based off of calligraphy, made to further homogenize text and rid it of the inconsistencies that come with handwritten text. Many innovations in typography were created during the 15th century, such as italicized font and movable type. Initially, these innovations were designed with specific intent, such as making print more legible, or making it closer together to save space and generate more revenue; as time went on and it became less burdensome or costly to create new fonts, they began to serve a more artistic purpose, letting the author offer additional meaning through the form of their font, even so much as to transform words into art. 

Modern society's use of fonts is much more convenient than it was from the 15th century until now. Nearly anyone with access to a computer and a word processor can change the font of their text to any of which they have downloaded with the click of a button. This rapid change, experienced mostly during the last couple decades, gave way to a large dissemination of typefaces across all forms of media. What was once mainly a tool for print and publishing companies is now able to be used by just about anyone. However, those people that haven't gone through their lives with a keen interest in typefaces or print will fail to realize the immense history of each typeface, since each and every typeface has a story behind it. This history can be gleamed through typeface revival. Since many fonts were created to work well with the printing methods of the time, when those went out of style, so did the typefaces. Lupton mentions multiple typefaces named after 15th and 16th century printers that are now well known since they've been revived and modernized. Their legacy has been continued through advancements in technology, while also reflecting the current time's print customs as well.

The most interesting use of typefaces that the class read about and discussed is their use in street art. When I think of street art or graffiti, I tend to see it as a reflection of the individual artist; the letterforms of someone's tags on a building tell me more about them than anything else. However, when looking at street art as a whole (including murals and commissioned art, focusing on those with type so to stay in this scope) then you can see how society responds to type, and most importantly how type responds to society. A typeface is a reflection of those who create it, and its purpose. That's to say, a font need not always be legible for it to be impactful and used as intended. Reading Heller's piece about Pablo Medina's Latinx and Bushwick inspired typeface, I came to see how a font can represent not just an individual but a community. Looking back, typefaces could certainly be regional or share some uniformity due to the dialect, but I think as they're distributed to more people, more niche typefaces are able to be created from individuals' experiences, and serve more communities that way. We also discussed typeface ownership in class and the implications of taking a font like Medina's and distributing it. The final conclusion I reached after discussing this is that the history of the font will always be a part of the context of any work using that font, which is why it can be important to look into who and when it was created and why, and how that impacts the rest of the artist's work.