This week's readings helped me challenge my own notion of what a book is and can be. Ken Liu's _The Bookmaking Habits of Select Species_ was the most impactful reading, conjuring up imaginary civilizations each with their own form of book. Not every civilization had the ability to read or write, but they had the means to capture their thoughts and actions with other mediums. This diverges from the current mainstream notion of what a book is, the physical novel. Unlearning this idea can help transform the ways in which our society records and shares information.

Another important aspect in the lifecycle of books are their repurposing. This theme is explored in this reading as one civilization, the _Caru'ee_, make their home in the discarded books of other civilizations. In this same fashion, humans scrape ink off of parchment to reuse it, or deconstruct books entirely to use them for their parts to make something new. With modern technologies and an abundance of resources however, there's less of a need to purge text to reuse the materials for a new codex; more popular nowadays is the deconstruction of a book to create art.

One of the ideas that the text highlighted was the ideas of a book's _aura_. The idea that when it's created, a book occupies a place in time in history which gives additional meaning and context to the book is invaluable. Some examples of this context include the form of the material the book was made with and the previous owner(s) of the book if any. The reproduction of works has the consequence of losing this context. The original work is perceived as "authentic," while the replication is an entirely new work. The benefits however are that the work is able to be distributed and consumed by a larger audience, allowing ideas to more easily spread across the world. 

With the arrival of the digital age, books and information have never been as accessible as they are now. The reading makes note of the perceived nostalgia for physical novels rather than digital ones. I see this not as nostalgia, but appreciation for the form of the codex, as well as the relative novelty of digital works and the unfamiliarity with it. Time is an important theme throughout the readings as well, and as it moves forward technology does as well. The adaption of new book technologies are never immediate, and we are one of the first few generations being immersed in these digital mediums.